---
layout: post
title: Starting From Zero
image: /img/hello_world.jpeg
---

I never, ever wanted to be a programmer. Maybe I wasn’t ever set on what I did want to do, but I sure knew it wasn’t going to be coding.

Today, I am starting a 60-week data science program, and intend to start a career where I code every day by the end of next year.

I want to tell you how I got here.

In high school, I took an AP Statistics class. There wasn’t really any motivation behind it — I wasn’t aching to learn statistics — all I knew was that I needed to take a math class, AP Calculus sounded terrifying, and AP Statistics was available in the same time block.

It was one of the best classes I’ve ever taken.

Statistics was everything that other math classes had never been for me. A constant reminder of real-life applications? Check. Opportunities for interesting research that didn’t seem tedious? Check. A sprinkle of ethics and philosophy just to keep things interesting? Check. I was in heaven. I enjoyed math, for the first time, and often pondered about what it would be like to be a statistician.

I finished the class, I aced the test, and I completely forgot about statistics.

Then, in my first job after I graduated high school, I found my place in a locally-run business as their operations manager. My favorite part of every week was our performance review. I would pull data and compile it all into reports for the team, reports for the staff, and reports for our boss. The numbers told me their stories and invited me to explore, and I loved it. I got in trouble more than once for taking too much time diving into the details or getting distracted making scatter plots during our meetings.

But, as 19-year-olds are wont to do, I decided that I wanted to try something new, so I left the job, and spent the next year or two just sort of floating. I had left college once I realized how much debt I was accruing and was working entry-level jobs, mostly at call centers, so I had no claim to anything especially exciting or mentally stimulating happening in my life.

I grew more and more certain that I would never find a career I was really passionate about without sinking all my money into a flawed system.

At some point, I realized that a lot of things I loved doing (statistics, operations management, and even hobbies like making spreadsheets) had one major common theme: data analysis. Why it took me so long to crack that code, I’ll never understand, but it reignited the fire which had been barely flickering for so long. I dove into research about online courses, local schools, and college degrees. I researched careers which involved analyzing data and using that data to help improve businesses. I watched YouTube videos, read articles and blog posts, reached out to my statistics teacher from high school, and kept coming back to that one thing which I had avoided so long: coding.

Code was foreign territory, but something about it felt inevitable. The world we live in is one of computers, not to mention the fact that when you start talking about the sheer amounts of raw data produced on a daily basis, tracking it without some computer assistance becomes a task similar to carving the full text of the Bible into stone: archaic, tedious, and it will probably consume literally your entire life.

This brings us to Lambda School. Truthfully, to describe my discovery of Lambda School feels like describing a whirlwind romance. I courted lots of options, including online schools, bootcamps, 4-year degrees, and just about every sleazy scam you can think of. I’d heard about them all. I had settled on saving up for 2 or 3 years so I’d have the (seemingly necessary) $10,000+ required to even get my foot in the door safely, and then Lambda appeared.

It really was love at first sight. No money up front, because they have so much faith in their program that they’ll wait for you to find a job. Fully online, and accommodating of my full-time work schedule. They could even take in someone like me — who had adamantly refused to learn anything about code since before most kids know what code is — and still have me in the job field after a brief precourse and 60 weeks of classes. It seemed too good to be true. Believe you me, I scoured the internet for evidence of a scam, poor business practices, or shady contract-writing, but there was nothing to be found.

So now, here we are. I find myself sitting on the edge of a cliché with the door to the next phase of my life wide-open in front of me, and it is thrilling. The precourse has given me a taste of this strange new world of Python and data science, and I don’t think I’ve ever learned so much or worked so hard in such a short period of time — the class hasn’t even started!

I’m looking forward to taking you all on this journey with me: from starting here, today, at nothing, to whatever the future may have in store for me.
